and it came to pass in the four hundred
and eightieth year after the children of
Israel had come out of the land of Egypt
in the fourth year of Solomon's reign
over Israel in the month of Ziv which is
the second month that he began to build
the house of the Lord now the house
which King Solomon built for the Lord
its length was sixty cubits its width
twenty and its height thirty cubits the
vestibule in front of the sanctuary of
the house was twenty cubits long across
the width of the house and the width of
the vestibule extended 10 cubits from
the front of the house and he made for
the house windows with beveled frames
against the wall of the temple he built
chambers all around against the walls of
the temple all around the sanctuary and
the inner sanctuary
[Music]
thus he made side chambers all around it
the lowest chamber was five cubits wide
the middle was six cubits wide and the
third was seven cubits wide for he made
narrow ledges around the outside of the
temple so that the support beams would
not be fastened into the walls of the
temple and the temple when it was being
built was built with stone finished at
the quarry so that no hammer or chisel
or any iron tool was heard in the temple
while it was being built the doorway for
the middle story was on the right side
of the temple they went up by stairs to
the middle story and from the middle to
the third so he built the temple and
finished it and he paneled the temple
with beams and boards of cedar and he
built side chambers against the entire
temple each five cubits high they were
attached to the temple with cedar beams
then the word of the Lord came to song
concerning this temple which you are
building if you walk in my statutes
execute my judgments keep all my
Commandments and walk in them then I
will perform my word with you which I
spoke to your father David and I will
dwell among the children of Israel and
will not forsake my people Israel so
Solomon built the temple and finished it
and he built the inside walls of the
temple with cedar boards from the floor
of the temple to the ceiling
he paneled the inside with wood and he
covered the floor of the temple with
planks of Cypress then he built the
twenty cubit room at the rear of the
temple from floor to ceiling with cedar
boards he built it inside as the inner
sanctuary as the most holy place and in
front of it the temple sanctuary was 40
cubits long the inside of the temple was
cedar carved with ornamental buds and
open flowers all was cedar
there was no stone to be seen and he
prepared the inner sanctuary inside the
temple to set the Ark of the Covenant of
the Lord bear the inner sanctuary was 20
cubits long 20 cubits wide and 20 cubits
high he overlaid it with pure gold and
overlaid the altar of cedar so Solomon
overlaid the inside of the temple with
pure gold he stretched gold chains
across the front of the inner sanctuary
and overlaid it with gold the whole
temple he overlaid with gold until he
had finished all the temple also he
overlaid with gold the entire altar that
was by the inner sanctuary inside the
inner sanctuary he made two cherubim of
olivewood each ten cubits high
one wing of the cherub was five cubits
and the other wing of the cherub five
cubits ten cubits from the tip of one
wing to the tip of the other and the
other cherub was ten cubits both
cherubim were of the same size and shape
the height of one cherub was ten cubits
and so was the other chair then he set
the cherubim inside the inner room and
they stretched out the wings of the
cherubim so that the wing of the one
touched one wall and the wing of the
other cherub touched the other wall and
their wings touched each other in the
middle of the room also he overlaid the
cherubim with gold then he carved all
the walls of the temple all around both
the inner and outer sanctuaries with
carved figures of cherubim palm trees
and open flowers and the floor of the
temple he overlaid with gold both the
inner and outer sanctuaries for the
entrance of the inner sanctuary he made
doors of olive wood the lintel and door
posts were one fifth of the war the two
doors were of olive wood and he carved
on them figures of cherubim palm trees
and open flowers and overlaid them with
gold and he spread gold on the cherubim
and on the palm trees so for the door of
the sanctuary he also made door posts of
olive wood one-fourth of the wall and
the two doors were of cypress wood two
panels comprised one folding door and
two panels comprised the other folding
door then he carved cherubim palm trees
and open flowers on them and overlaid
them with gold applied evenly on the
carved work
and he built the inner court with three
rows of hewn stone and a row of cedar
beans in the fourth year the foundation
of the house of the Lord was laid in the
month of Ziv and in the eleventh year in
the month of bull which is the eighth
month the house was finished in all its
details and according to all its plans
so he was seven years in building it